Blockchain is a technology that allows data to be housed in a public, decentralized system which enables simultaneous access to the data. Some blockchain implementations offer an ideal setting for decentralized smart contract execution (Diallo, 2018). Smart contracts contain rules for all of the involved members and through the design of the technology, the rules are enforced on everyone (Giancaspro, 2017). This enforcement enables the autonomous aspect of the technology and provides an ethical solution. Decision-making and voting are 2 areas where Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO) excels at. The flattened hierarchy of DAOs is an ideal blockchain technology for organizations that aim to digitalize their governance tools (Jentzsch, 2022).

The DAO technology has been used in venture capital companies and demonstrated its efficiency through that usage. More than 18000 stakeholders utilized this technology and DAOs can be implemented for usage in highly populated organizations. Therefore, it can be concluded that it is also applicable to different types of autonomous organizations like student clubs.

A lot of organizations, including student clubs, have previously had a hard time in the process of digitalizing their governance and tools. A structure that could provide authenticity, security, efficiency, and ethical trust at the same time wasn’t available. But, when applied correctly, the DAO structure can provide autonomous organizations with the required tools for digitalization and automation for their governance (Jentzsch, 2022). Because of their decentralized nature DAOs provide each member with the ability to participate (with equal influence) in the decision-making processes which makes this structure different. A company called “Junonetwork” showed that DAOs can be utilized to build a framework where users can propose and vote smoothly and autonomously. “Junonetwork” states that DAOs are going to be the dominant platform for decision-making (Junonetwork, 2021).

When developed, DAOs can be very useful for many types of student organizations in universities. Through digitalization, this technology can make organizations even more productive. The goal of this project is to provide a system where DAOs can be created to help organizations in universities with their voting and governance requirements. Every organization will be provided with its DAOs where they can create and manage the responses for their ideas, events, etc. in a decentralized and digitalized way.
